the one plus seven was just announced
it's a phone that I've actually been
using for the past couple of weeks and I
thought I would do a user experience
review on it while also doing the water
test now normally I would do a water
test on this phone and then give you
guys as a results but because of the
nature of this phone I worried about its
ability to survive this water test it's
not kind of IP rated and there's some
features which we'll get into later that
kind of make it seem like it's more
susceptible to water damage so I'm gonna
start the timer drop it in and then
start this review because I feel like
that's the only way you can really do
this I really don't want to drop this in
actually I got to redo that timer
I started it's eight seconds early okay
starting now can we still see that sure
let's roll with it okay one plus seven
pro the most kind of pertinent feature
of this phone is the screen it's a high
resolution screen 1440p higher than any
other oneplus phone to this date and
it's also a larger screen it's a phone
that's really big if you look at
pictures and stuff it doesn't give a
clear example of actually how big this
phone is it's something you actually
want to pick up and try in a store if
you can before you purchase it because
it is a noticeably bigger phone now the
two main features of this screen are the
90 Hertz refresh rate as well is the
fact that it has no notch or no kind of
cutouts or any kind of disruptions in
the display while you're using the front
panel so the 90 Hertz refresh is
something that if you've never seen it
before
it's very difficult to showcase this in
a video it's difficult because these
videos are shot at 24 frames per second
and what you're seeing is happening at
60 or 90 frames per second basically the
whole UI the whole phone becomes
significantly smoother than it actually
that's all gone it blacked out for a
second I thought I think my periphery
and it tilts us a little bit so I can
see it a little bit better
okay but it just looks really smooth if
you can experience this thing in real
life you'll notice it but I shot some
slow-motion of this just to kind of
showcase to the best of my ability a
high refresh screen on a phone looks
much better than a 60 frames per second
screen so the traditional kind of
smartphone screen were used to 60 frames
per second 90 frames per second you're
seeing a lot more frames a lot more
animation frames everything looks better
James you I just browsing around on the
web on reddit everything looks super
smooth it supposedly uses a little bit
more battery I didn't really notice that
much a difference between running at 60
frames per second versus 90 but there is
supposed to be a battery difference
between the two settings the removal of
the notch is actually something looks
really nice a lot of companies have been
in pursuit of that completely clean
front-facing screen these guys have
achieved it obviously they've done a
kind of trick with the camera to do it
but it is a very clean looking front and
I think it makes content or any kind of
anything on your phone look really nice
now there is one feature of the screen
that I don't love
it's the edges so if you've used any
kind of oneplus one in the past they
have a flat surface like a flat glass
surface the oneplus 7 pro has a curved
edge i I wish I'd pull it out of there
right now but it's basically like the
curved edge of a samsung phone so it's
got this curvature to the display that
honestly looks really cool in pictures
I've talked about some previous videos
illustrating videos looks great in
commercials and pictures but in terms of
functionality it doesn't really bring
all that much to the table so I feel
like for a lot of users if you're not
used to that curved screen and you're
just used to the regular kind of 1 plus
flat display it's gonna be something
that you have to either get used to or
you'll just really dislike regardless of
how much you use it and I'm personally
someone that prefers that flat display
so I'll got to be honest I don't like
that curved edge it's something that I
personally don't really like very much
but the display is fantastic I'd say
it's actually one of the best-looking
displays in the entire market really
high brightness good colors with high
refresh and it's got that completely
notch las'
whole this image up front which I really
like now the purpose of this completely
clean front is so that it looks a
particular way but to achieve this they
had to use this weird camera mechanism
so the camera is on this motorized
mechanism that you have to activate to
pop-up so if you're taking a selfie you
press the button and it will pop up but
when it's retracted it just tucks into
the machine you can't see any of the
front-facing camera lenses or anything
like that it pops up pretty quickly
press the button and you're good to go
when it comes to stuff like face unlock
it's a little bit different than normal
so if you activate face unlock it'll pop
up it'll recognize your face and then
I'll pop back down and it's actually
slow enough like that whole process of
it popping up and popping back down is
slow enough that it makes me not want to
use face unlock which is unfortunate
because oneplus phones have extremely
fast face unlock features on the oneplus
60 it's like you could look at it the
wrong way it'll unlock it's that quick
and it's kind of annoying that you now
have to deal with a slower kind of face
unlock time because of it I've actually
resorted to using the fingerprint sensor
it's a very fast fingerprint sensor on
the oneplus 7 pro but it's just
something that I wish I mean there's not
much they could have done I'll be honest
they probably couldn't make it pop up
and pop back down any faster but it is
an issue and I think most people that
pick up this phone will be leaning
towards that fingerprint unlock instead
of the face unlock the pop-up camera
also has this feature that's kind of
like a fall sensor if it detects a big
enough shift in the accelerometer it'll
actually retract the camera in an
attempt to close up the camera system
before it hits the ground it's kind of a
safety mechanism and it's cool that they
thought of that there's a couple other
noteworthy features on the oneplus 7 pro
it now has stereo speakers it's
something that oneplus phones have been
missing for ever and it's nice to
finally have them I actually didn't
realize it had stereo speakers at first
I couldn't read the instruction manual
anything I just popped it open I was
like wow this sounds a lot better it's
been lacking for years it's nice that
they have it it also has a new haptic
engine if you've used one plus phones in
the past you'll recognize that they just
don't have a particularly strong
vibratory motor it is much improved on
seven Pro it honestly feels like any of
the best kind of haptic motors on the
market it's really nice okay the camera
on this phone if you're interested I
mean some people don't care about
cameras but for the people that do it
now rocks a three camera system and I
would say that's the biggest improvement
in terms of the camera system it forget
about the processing and stuff like that
the fact that it has a wide angle a
standard and a 3x zoom that makes for me
personally that just what makes this
camera system much more useful and just
much better than the previous versions
I'm someone that enjoys the wide-angle
like that's how I use my smart phones
I'd like to take like family pictures
and just pictures of stuff and you ought
to see more stuff in the photo something
I really like but I wouldn't say that
the image quality itself has improved a
lot
it feels very oneplus still like if you
zoom in and you look for imperfections
you're gonna find them but the image
quality on this camera is great it's not
the best out there but I'm very
satisfied with it I think most people
that purchase this phone will be happy
with it it's also a very fast phone it's
running a Snapdragon 855 it's running
ufs 3.0 storage it's like incredibly
fast storage speed it's also running up
to 12 gigs of RAM on the oneplus 7 pro
so speed is not an issue it's a very
fast overall system the battery is also
quite baked it's a four thousand
milliamp hour battery and it's also
running warped charged this year so if
you're unfamiliar with warped charge its
there 30 watt charger it's like it's a
very fast charger so it'll fill when I
tested this a couple times it filled to
full and just under an hour and a half
and it hit the 50% mark at around 25
minutes it's a it's a very fast charge
in terms of battery life I was actually
getting around seven to eight hours of
screen on time
I've actually been playing a lot of this
stupid crab game it's a terrible game
but I'm addicted to it it's one of those
like idle clickers it uses a processor
quite heavily and even when I had this
thing running I was still getting like a
solid seven hours of screen on time
every day I want to talk about the
pricing on this device so oneplus when
they first started put out a $300 phone
they were in the business of killing
flagships they were making flagship
killers for really low pricing and over
the years they've kind of bumped up the
price a little bit not unexpectedly and
so not in a manner that was unfair I
felt that it's just normal increases in
price and they've come out with a phone
that has now $700 now they still have
their regular one plus seven like no
one's forcing you to buy the one plus
seven pro but when I first found out
about the pricing I was a little bit
disappointed I would consider myself not
like an enthusiast like not like a 1
plus 7 enthusiast but at least a one
plus appreciator
I enjoy the brand I like what they've
done in the past and I like what they
try to do and for them to drop a $700
phone felt so out of place for the brand
it just didn't feel like one plus like
they've always been kind of that budget
market and kind of mid tier focusing on
value and suddenly they drop a $700
phone it feels it felt different it
almost felt I was going to use the word
offensive that's the wrong word it just
felt unlike the brand and I think for a
lot of enthusiasts that have been with
this brand and kind of like cult members
of the 1 plus cult I can understand why
people are disappointed that this phone
is as expensive as it is but then I took
a step back and realized this is not for
the people that are buying the 400 or
$500 phones this is for a completely
different segment of people who are
buying phones they still have the
regular 1 plus 7 for that mid tier
market but they have this for just a
completely different segment of users
and I like the fact that they did this I
liked the fact that they made something
that feels different from the other
people in that premium market I like the
fact that they did this in a smart way
they didn't just like copy another brand
and take all the regular kind of
flagship features and make another
version of the superstar brands they
made their own variant of it they spent
money on the display they skipped on IP
rating and stuff like that
I'll go I'm surprised it's still going
it's been 13 minutes almost it's still
alive okay a lot of phone companies
right now seem to be trying to extend
into that mid tier or even lower to your
market like we see Google come out with
the pixel 3a and it's interesting to see
a company like oneplus kind of move in
the opposite direction they've off
in the mid-tier market and now they're
moving into the more expensive premium
segment if you're interested in this
device you're probably also looking at
the Samsung S 10 plus and it's a phone
that can also be purchased for around
$700 at this point in time that's just
the nature of Samsung's pricing it's
gone down to that and if I had to choose
between the two the oneplus phone has
advantages like a ninety Hertz screen
with no knotch
with cleaner software and more frequent
software updates and the Samsung phone
has stuff like wireless charging a
headphone jack it has probably better
customer support depending on where you
live and I think for a lot of people
it's a tough decision right it's like do
you go with the well-known Samsung brand
or do you go with the lesser-known or
just less popular oneplus brand that has
all this cool stuff and if I had to
choose between the two not that I would
because truthfully I like smaller phones
I've mentioned this earlier in the video
but this is a large phone and for me
personally this is too big of phone for
me but if I had to choose between the
two I'd probably choose I'm seeing
things I keep I keep thinking that like
I'm seeing distortion on the screen but
it's not but if I had to choose it would
be I would be going for this phone only
because of that screen that 90 Hertz
screen looks fantastic it's something
that no other phone has right now that
has all these other features and I think
that if you appreciate that stuff like I
do like I like high refresh gaming I
like high refresh everything all my
laptops and displays I try to go for
high refresh if you appreciate that
stuff if you value that then this is a
really good pick up but understand that
is a really big phone okay I'm gonna
fish this out at this point because it
seems like it survived okay
it lived I don't want to do the camera
like underwater I don't want to maybe I
should just to see I feel like this is
the thing that's gonna break it but I'm
curious it lasted like 16 minutes
underwater but I'm gonna do a yeah I'll
do it let's just do it so I'm gonna pop
at the camera underwater
I really don't want to do this but just
for the sake of completion cameras
extended phone still works
I've retracted the camera it's still
alive I mean just double-check the
camera still works
still it pops up it goes back down okay
hope you guys enjoyed this video I know
a shot and feels very different from my
regular videos but I feel like I just
had to do it like this because because
of the water test thanks for watching
thumbs if you liked it subs we loved it
see you guys next time